[Music]
Hello everyone, I'm Laura, the cook
at the Stella del Mare hotel in gam
Marina. Today I want to try making
Neapolitan pastiera. Don't be angry with me,
please. I'll give it my all. It's a
recipe from the hotel school that I
found and  I propose again As I
found it I accept all the advice
but thank you very much let's go and see the
ingredients for the shortcrust pastry we have
300 g of flour 150 g of sugar 150 g
of lard three egg yolks A pinch
of salt and the grated zest  of a
lemon for the
filling we have 300 g of cooked wheat 450
g of nice tasty and
drained ricotta then 5 five
egg yolks plus
the 120 g of egg whites 30 g of sugar that
goes into the egg whites when they are whipped and
75 g of sugar that goes  in the filling
then some candied orange and some
orange blossom water which I didn't find
here so I don't have it let's proceed I make
a fountain with the
flour I put the
sugar in the 150 g of sugar the three
egg yolks I let it go in
good A pinch of salt just barely
my 150 g of lard
can probably also be made with
butter but the original The recipe
I have is with lard now I'll grate a little
lemon the yeast doesn't work let's
perfume it a little
obviously my lemon was washed
carefully and it is a
perfect untreated lemon now let's get our
hands dirty and knead our
shortcrust pastry I had never
eaten Neapolitan pastiera until
last winter I had always heard of it
but I didn't know how  it was made and I did
n't know what it tasted like it seemed like
a
very strange thing to me when I heard people talking about
cooked wheat or
things or Neapolitan pastiera in
general then one evening I went out by
pure chance together with my daughter and her and
her husband they took me to a
restaurant  managed by the
guys from
Naples we had eaten very well but at
a certain point my son-in-law said no no
no You have to taste the pastiera because it's
a fantastic thing and I said well
Ok let's try it This too is a
fantastic thing it's really a good thing and
when I'm  back home I tried to
make it I tried to make it with different
recipes but then my dear friend, the
usual one, told me, look, I
attended the hotel school, I have the
recipe that I learned at the
hotel school and so this is the one I
propose to you  This is my shortcrust pastry
now I have to divide it with one part I have to
line the cake pan and with the other I have to
make stripes on top like a tart
ok with this quantity you will get a
nice
large pastiera I always keep a little flour near me
because  we know that the shortcrust pastry
needs to be continuously
floured,
it is very
delicate and quite soft. At this
point, in order not to F the figures,
we should stop picking it up and then
pick it up again when it is already rolled out. However, I don't
think this is the case because if there are
problems they can also happen
It's right for you at home to
see how they are
resolved.
So to do it better, I'll take the paper from
my
cake tin. I have a 28cm cake tin
so it's nice and big.
Ok, let's do this
operation with a
wheel, cut off the excess dough, there
will be some corners that
need to be attached.  a little bit of
patch
and
so now I transfer it to my
pan I need the edge because it has to
contain the
filling so by measuring in
this way the edge remains
Ok now let's move on to the filling
we'll put this aside first of all I'll pass
the
ricotta it's needed  a little time A little
patience but the ricotta oxygenates it has
a greater volume and and not only it has
another another flavor another
taste almost
finished I'm a bit fussy so I
need it to go through all of it
all of it Ok  now I take a
spatula, I turn my little sieve
and I collect all the
ricotta
Ok We always try not to throw
anything away because the ingredients are
always Precious
well Here I have to add the
egg yolks first the
sugar if I make a mistake then Angelita
scolds me when Watch the video she tells me  Ah
you did this first than
that Ok First the sugar
then the
egg yolks and
voilà Now I'll put the
wheat the wheat I was also asking But where
is it found in the supermarket and it
shows up they have it almost all the
supermarkets it comes in a
jar of
glass today you can find cooked wheat
probably
originally it was cooked I don't
want to express I really want
strange ideas because I don't want to say
nonsense then in the end the candied fruit
My friend advised me
to cut them a
little she says they feel better
let's have
a visit soon  Naples will remain an unfulfilled wish for me
I have always dreamed of
visiting the San Carlo theater and then
the whole city It must be a wonderful show
Here it is now
what I'm missing I'm missing the egg whites and the
30 g of sugar Now I'm going to whip the
egg whites and  to add the sugar I
whipped the egg whites with the 30 g of
sugar that I had aside now
I add them to the
cooked wheat ricotta In short I finish
my
filling I try to add them
delicately Perfect
Here we are
ready I take my
shortcrust pastry base and pour the
stuffed it is an excellent dessert at the end of
the meal I have already tried it a few
times even in the
hotel it was
appreciated And this evening they will eat
this too
Voilà
mix well I help myself with my finger as
usual now I make the
stripes which is finished like a tart
I move the cake I take
For convenience I had
simply placed my pastry on the side but
it is always better to cover it with
something with cling film Or
sometimes that's enough A cup turned upside down on
a
plate so you don't run the risk of it
drying out It's very delicate, among other things
it's a little  ' softer
than classic shortcrust pastry
It takes a little
patience Here
[Music]
here we knead it and we knead it several
times so that it stays
still and that it is enough to make
all the
stripes, let's see
so let's
start it breaks with a lot  ease
we can help ourselves in this
way I put the
knife under it and I bring it over
ok and I put the piece where
it is missing my pastiera is ready Now
I put it in the oven at 170° for about forty
minutes
let's go our pastiera is cooked asato
Obviously a  a little while it has cooled down
a little, 40 minutes in the oven at
170°
we remove it
slowly, we put it on the
wood and we can leave the paper underneath
or try to remove it very
delicately but it is better if we leave it
because it is very
delicate now let's cut one  slice and
let's try to put it on a plate let's see
the effect it
has let's make a nice
important slice I'll take a
[Applause]
plate and here it is Enjoy your
meal Thank you all for being
with us remember to like it if
you liked it obviously I hope so  yes
and I'll meet you for the next
recipe. Hello to
[Music]
all n